# Lombard Street 1873

The year is 2021, yet it is very reminiscent of 1873, when Walter Bagehot wrote in his book, Lombard Street, that London's financial system during his time was the most extraordinary combination of economic power and economic delicacy that the world has ever seen. Ten years prior to writing his book, a firm known as the 'banker's bank named Overend, Gurney, and Co. lost all of its capital within a matter of six years, showing how fragile a system that relies on “long-established credit” can be. Within twenty years, the four great London Joint Stock Banks' liabilities had grown by a multiple of six while the private deposits of the Bank of England had only increased by a factor of two. He foresaw a reckoning where panic in the market could create a situation where a run on the Bank of England would cause insolvency, even being the “Lender of Last Resort.” Bagehot put forth mechanisms and a system that creates a strong foundation to base the financial markets. His solution's core pillar included a“Reserve Bank” that would lend based on strict collateral requirements, a fundamental piece to ORES.

Today, we see the unfolding of a similar scenario that Bagehot chronicled in his book within the currency markets. Starting with the secure yet slow, Bitcoin, virtual currencies have evolved to the point where fiat currencies are now being represented as hard and soft pegged stable-coins. In addition, Central Banks around the world look to digitize their currencies further using similar technologies. The unpegged virtual currency markets are volatile, and people look for risk-less virtual assets as safe havens to trade out of riskier assets. Collateralized stable-coins also allow leveraging of the underlying collateral.

This was much the same, albeit with gold and silver, across the world before the banking system, paper money, and securities were introduced in the western world. At that time, most people did not trust others with their silver or gold and stored it within their homes. A professional that had saved their bullion and coins had no way of deploying it into the economy in a secure manner. When notes began to be issued and offered an outlet for this capital, the East Indies Company, South Sea Company, as well as companies for all sorts of various endeavors, sprang up that only provided returns based on speculation versus realized production.

